So now that we've done that,
the next thing we wanna do is,
we wanna explore something called
using dynamic configurations, okay?
Now what exactly does that mean?
Well, let's look at our
code really quickly here.
So if you notice, my code has module
project and module workspace.
Can anyone tell me what I would have to do
if I wanted to create another workspace?
What do you guys think I'd have to?
What would be the most straightforward
way of creating another workspace?
Can anyone tell me?
>> Copy-paste.
>> Edit.
>> Yeah, copy-paste, yeah, exactly.
And so, I go like this.
This is the most common way of doing it,
right here.
And then what else would I have to do?
Copy-paste might not be enough.
I said that there was one other caveat,
right?
>> You have to edit it?
>> Yep, and what do I have to edit?
>> Probably the description and name.
>> But what is identical here
that might be a conflict?
>> Product ID?
>> Close, but it's a little bit more
literal, look on lines 11 and 21.
>> You cannot have the same
module with the same name.
>> Exactly, and what would that do?
What would happen if I had the same
module with the same name twice?
What do you guys think would happen?
Do you think it would work?
>> It would override the first
one with the second one?
>> It'd conflict.
It could actually fail.
Terraform would say, hey,
you've got two things with the same name.
So if I do Terraform.
Now just to note, you don't have to do
validate with doppler, because validate
doesn't actually communicate with
anything, but then there you go.
Sure enough it says, hey,
you've got duplicate module here.
Can't do it, right?
So what we wanna do is,
if this is the approach we wanna take,
we need to start doing things like,
okay, let's make this one example.
A, right, and then that kind
of becomes the process, right?
But it's very tedious.
What happens if you wanna update
all of these names, right?
Then you have to go through one by
one by one by one by one to do that.
It's very cumbersome and
honestly just annoying to do.
So there is another approach to this.
And I at least like to call it
dynamic configurations, right?
The idea is,
is that we do have HCL, right?
We do have a [LAUGH] pseudo-programming
language available to us, right?
It is really what's called
a domain-specific language,
which is the idea of a language
that's not a general purpose,
you can't create APIs and
services with it.
But it's a language used to build things,
right?
And so we can lean on that code or
that language to be able to make this
a bit more dynamic and easy for us.
So what we wanna do is, is we're
gonna introduce a new concept called,
oops, sorry.
We're gonna introduce a new
concept called locals.
And we're gonna create a file, [LAUGH]
[INAUDIBLE], called locals.tf, right?
So again, we're gonna create
a file called locals.tf, right?
Then what we're gonna do is,
is we're going to open that file.
Now, locals, or what I'm showing you
right now, is a concept in Terraform
that allows you to essentially
create variables locally, right?
Now Terraform has a configuration
approach to how it defines things.
So you're always gonna have
a meta-argument, and then some brackets,
and then some attributes
in those brackets, right?
Whether it be a local, whether it be a
resource, whether it be a module, whether
it be whatever, this syntax is pretty much
always what you're gonna end up doing.
So let's think about configuration here.
What do we need to configure?
From a resource perspective,
if I pull this up from left to right,
what resources do we need to configure?
And I'll give you a hint, their names
are on line one and line nine [LAUGH].
What resources you guys think we need
to configure here, if we try and
look at it from that angle?
It's actually very simple,
it's project and workspace.
We need to configure projects and
workspaces, right?
So the idea is, is that we're looking
at these modules now as reusable for
loops, almost, that we can create multiple
projects with and multiple modules with.
So how can we achieve that?
Well, let's go ahead and
go into locals, right?
And what I'm gonna do is,
I'm just gonna simply create a new set,
I think is what it's called attribute set,
called project.
That is now going to be where I'm
gonna put all of my projects, right?
Then I also have a workspace.
So now I'm gonna do workspace.
Do the same thing, right?
Now when I said before that
we are literally trying
to configure workspaces and projects,
this is what I mean, right?
We look over here and we say, well,
this resource is meant to be a project.
This resource is meant to be a workspace,
but I'm gonna have tons of them, right?
So maybe if there's a way to where
I can only have to touch this once,
right, but then really do all of my
defining and variables over here.
If you've ever used
a programming language before,
this is actually very common, right?
You just make a variable or
map or something like that, and
you use it throughout your code.
That's what we're doing,
that's all we're doing.
We're just making the unique part of
the code and we're separating it so
that we can easily configure it
later through the logic, and
we don't have to be worried about
actual modules and stuff like that.
So we have a project, right?
Let me actually close this really quickly,
reopen it, just so that my syntax,
there we go.
So we have a project, right?
We have a project.
And you'll notice that when
you start using Terraform,
if we go back to our main,
it's mostly key value, right?
So it's like you got a key, and
then you have a value for that.
It's mostly maps is really what
I'm trying to get at here.
And so if I wanted to, I could take
two different approaches to this.
I could say, okay, well,
what I wanna do is,
I wanna say,
instead of using the name project,
I actually wanna use the name fem-eci-,
what is it, workspace.
Yeah, workspace.
Or no, sorry, project, right?
And then I'm going to,
one more time, do equals.
And then create an attribute set for
it, right?
So now you can kind of start to get
an idea of how we're constructing this
configuration, or what we're now gonna
call our DSL, or domain-specific language.
So we're kind of building
our own domain language or
domain configuration on top of their
language to make our lives easier.
So what exactly, if I have a project,
what values do you guys think
I would have to put in here?
What values from project do
you think I would have to put
in here that are needed for it?
>> Name and description.
Why not the organization name?
>> That comes from a different variable.
>> Right, it does, but there's another
reason why we don't wanna do that yet.
What would you think that reason might be?
Why would we not want to make
organization name dynamic?
>> Okay, you don't want that to change,
right, you want them all.
>> Exactly, you don't want it to change.
I don't wanna have to,
think about liter, [LAUGH] it's amazing.
One of our community members from Stream
loves to call DevOps the janitors [LAUGH]
of engineering.
It's kind of true.
[LAUGH] You have to think about
what you're gonna be sweeping and
how much of it you wanna sweep man.
And a lot of it is about thinking about,
how much am I actually
trying to put on myself versus how
much can I make easily dynamic?
So in this case,
>> So
you're not gonna grab it
from variables anymore then?
>> No, we are, but
we're just gonna leave that there, right?
Because in a normal programming paradigm,
for example, right,
if we did a iteration of a project so
that we're creating multiple projects,
we don't want the organization
name to ever change, but
we want the description in
the name to change, right?
So we do want those be configurable.
Those become a part of our
domain configuration, but
anything that has to be static can stay.
So what does that mean?
Well, it means that now anybody
can come into my automation.
If I was to say, hey, I need a new
project, could somebody make that for
me really quickly?
It's no longer even,
what module, how do I?
It's literally just coming in here and
configuring it very simply.
So in this case, what we'll do is,
is we'll do description, oops.
>> Extreme description.
>> Yeah, but
we're not gonna do name actually.
Why might we not do name?
>> Is that implied with line three?
>> You mean line four.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes, it is.
So it's key value.
So you could save yourself even
more time by just leaning on
the logic of maps, right?
So now I only need one value
to configure my projects.
That's it, right?
If I want another project, That's it.
>> We need one key value.
>> What do you mean?
>> Wait, no, okay, you're right.
>> Yeah.
>> They can have redundant descriptions.
>> Yeah, the same description but-
>> That's fine, yeah,
the only thing that needs to be unique
is the name, basically, just so
that they don't conflict each other.
So we're gonna do this, right?
Now that's our project.
So what would be the key for
my workspace then?
Can anyone tell me?
Come on, copilot, don't ruin it.
[LAUGH] Can anyone tell me what the name?
Copilot, all right,
it did it for me, all right.
So anyways,
the power of AI showed it for me.
But we're gonna give it the same key as
the name of the actual thing we're trying
to create, right?
This is how we start to make resources
individual and unique, and for
the specific things that we want.
And because copilot, the AI,
[LAUGH] was recognizing the patterns that
I'm creating, it was able to easily
take care of the rest of it for me.
Now it didn't do, well, it did, but
this is kind of up to you, okay?
What might be one value we might actually
want to add to this that's not there?
>> Project ID.
>> Project, yeah, project, exactly.
You might not want every workspace to
go to the same project, [LAUGH] right?
Otherwise, that might not help
you with organization whatsoever.
So again, AI only go so far.
[LAUGH] We do want to include
project as well with this.
And so, yeah, there you go,
sure enough it can now see.
But I want to note another thing,
which is,
I'm using strings as description and
execution mode, but
I'm using module.project.id as my project.
Why am I doing that?
Can anyone tell me?
Why would I not just,
I don't know, try and
put a string there as well or something?
So the dependency trees that we
talked about before are just
natively supported in the code anywhere.
So if I set a value to something, and
it's a resource that's going to be
populated later,
it doesn't matter where it is in the code,
it will always make sure to calculate
that dependency tree properly.
This is something to think
about when you're talking
about creating dynamicness, right?
Is you need to think about,
okay, sure, I can use nothing but
strings here, but I need to
make sure that I actually have that
dependency tree being set up properly.
And so you might miss it if you don't
actually have it in the right spot.
And we do want it here because there might
be multiple projects that we create first,
right?
And so the first thing that's gonna happen
is because there's nothing in project that
it depends on.
It'll create the projects first, right?
But then it'll also create the workspaces
after that because we have the project ID
being injected.
Now again, it's using code, so it will
take care of all the rest of it for us.
>> So where is that project
ID coming from though?
>> It's coming from the module right here.
So when this is created,
module.project becomes module.project.
>> But where's the ID though?
>> Yes.
>> The ID is in what's called an exported
value, or an output.
So if we go back to
the Terraform workspace,
right, this is a module that we're using.
You're gonna notice that
there's two concepts here.
There's inputs,
which is the values you give it,
but then there's also outputs, right?
Output variables
are the variables that you can
then use later in other
parts of your code, right?
So I'm gonna create a workspace, but
I need to know maybe the idea of
the workspace or things like that,
then it would have an output for it.
So for example,
let's go to project, right?
Output, look at that ID, right?
Because I still need to get that ID for
things I'm gonna use later.
>> So
it's essentially it's being generated.
>> Yeah.
>> You're generating it with the, okay, so
it's some just random string or something?
>> Yeah, exactly.
It's whatever the provider uses, yeah.
So this is the Terraform cloud
ID of the project, yeah.
>> But this particular workspace
that we're defining in locals.
My mental model so far has been that
main.tf is where our class definitions
are, and locals.tf is where our particular
instances of those classes are.
>> It'd be more like variables.
Locals.tf is really just variables that
get passed to your classes, right?
And those are then being
brought in as arguments, right?
And then when you create a class,
you then can export attributes, right?
Same thing, a resource can export outputs
that then you can reuse elsewhere, right?
So for example, if we're using the class
dynamic, instantiate your class, and
then you say, okay,
I need to make sure I export an ID.
Well, then you say, this.id equals blah.
Now it can be used elsewhere
in your application code.
That's the same kind of approach we're
trying to do here with our automation.